docs: Attestation protocol updates (#9)
confidential-containers/kbs: docs/kbs_attestation_protocol.md

- `tee-pubkey`

After KBC receives the attestation challenge, an ephemeral asymmetric key pair
is generated in HW-TEE. The private key is stored in HW-TEE. The public key and
its description information are exported and placed in the `tee-pubkey` field
and sent to the KBS together with the attesation evidence. The hash of the
`tee-pubkey` field must be included in the custom field of HW-TEE evidence and
signed by HW-TEE hardware. This public key is valid until the next time the KBC
receives an attestation challenge from the KBS.

- `tee-evidence`

The attestation evidence generated by the HW-TEE platform software and hardware
in the KBC's execution environment.
The `tee-evidence` formats depend on the TEE and are typically defined by the
Attestation-Service.

The KBS does not parse or analyze the attestation evidence, it forwards it to
the Attestation-Service for verification.

## `Response`

Upon succcessful attestation, the KBC can request resources from the KBS, by
sending HTTP `GET` requests to it.

If the KBS approves the request, it responds to the KBC by sending a `Response`
payload that follows this format:

```json
{
    /*
     * The output of the KBS service API.

>      * It must be encrypted with the ephemeral symmetric key generated by the KBC.

Author: Thanks, I already fixed that one. I am going to send and updated version soon.

>      * It must be encrypted with the ephemeral symmetric key generated by the KBC.

Author: Fixed now.

    ┃     │Body: Response                         │     ┃
    ┃     └───────────────────────────────────────┘     ┃
    ┃                                                   ┃
    ┃                                                   ┃
    ┃                                                   ┃
    ▽        Figure 2: KBS Resource Request Phase       ▽
```

A request for protected resource can fail for three reasons:

1. The requester is not authenticated and thus can not provide the right cookie
   identifier. The KBS implementation sends an HTTP response with a 401
   (`Unauthorized`) status code.
2. The attester is authenticated but requests a resource that it's not allowed
   to receive. The KBS implementation sends an HTTP response with a 403
   (`Forbidden`) status code.
3. The requested resource does not exist. The KBS implementation sends an HTTP
   response with a 404 (`Not Found`) status code.

The KBS protocol currently supports two kinds of resources for an attester to
request: keys and tokens.

### Key Resource

Keys are generic protected resources that an authenticated attester can get by
sending a `GET` HTTP request to the `/kbs/v0/key/<key_id>` endpoint.

> The `<key_id>` resource name is defined by the attestation service. There should

Reviewer: There may be some confusion here. The attestation service should only be responsible for the verification of the evidence in the `Attestation` step, and the resource name should be defined by KBS itself.

Author: Thanks, I'll fix this as this could be quite confusing.

Author: Fixed, thanks.

process and send an initial [`Request`](#request) payload to the KBS. The KBS
will then respond to it with an attestation challenge described in the following
format:

```json
{
    /* Evidence freshness. */
    "nonce": "$nonce",
    /* Extra parameters to support some special HW-TEE attestation. */
    "extra-params": {}
}
```
> **Note:** the `/*...*/` comments are not valid in JSON, and must not be used.

- `nonce`

The freshness number passed to KBC. KBC needs to place it in the evidence sent
to the KBS in the next step to prevent replay attacks.

- `extra-params`

The reserved extra parameter field which is used to pass the additional
information provided by the KBS when some specific HW-TEE needs to be attested.

## `Attestation`

After receiving the attestation challenge, the KBC builds an attestation
evidence from the HW-TEE platform and organizes it into the following payload:

```json
{
    /*
     * A JWK-formatted public key, generated by the KBC running in the HW-TEE.
     * It is valid until the next time an attestation is required. Its hash must
     * be included in the HW-TEE evidence and signed by the HW-TEE hardware.
     */
    "tee-pubkey": $pubkey

> 

Reviewer: As we discussed earlier, perhaps we need to add a `measurements` field (or another synonymous name) to `Attestation` json payload? Just like this:

```json
{
    "tee-pubkey": $pubkey,
    "measurements": {
        $name: $value,
        ...
    },
    "tee-evidence": {}
}
```

Reviewer: cc @slp @sameo

format, as described in the [key format](#key-format) section.

- `tee-evidence`

The attestation evidence generated by the HW-TEE platform software and hardware
in the KBC's execution environment.
The `tee-evidence` formats depend on the TEE and are typically defined by the
Attestation-Service.

The KBS does not parse or analyze the attestation evidence, it forwards it to
the Attestation-Service for verification.

## `Response`

Upon succcessful attestation, the KBC can request resources from the KBS, by
sending HTTP `GET` requests to it.

If the KBS approves the request, it responds to the KBC by sending a `Response`
payload that follows the [JSON Web Encryption](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7516)
format:

``` json
{
    /* JOSE Header */
    "alg": "$alg",
    "enc": "$enc"
}.
{
    /*
     * The output of the KBS service API.
     * It must be encrypted with the ephemeral symmetric key generated by the KBS.
     */
    "ciphertext": "$response_output",
    "iv": "$initialization_vector",
    /*
     * The symmetric key used to encrypt `ciphertext`, which is encrypted by
     * the HW-TEE's public key.
     */
    "encrypted_key": "$enc_kbs_symkey"
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: JSON lint tells me this isn't valid JSON. Is this intended to be an array? Can the JOSE header object be a field within the root object?

Author: @slp Yes, the example is incorrectly formatted and the intention is for it to be an array, yes. So it should really look like that:

```json
[{
	"alg": "$alg",
	"enc": "$enc"
}, {
	"ciphertext": "$response_output",
	"iv": "$initialization_vector",
	"encrypted_key": "$enc_kbs_symkey"
}]
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not familiar with the JOSE specs. Is it required to be found in this form? As ordering in an array isn't guaranteed, consuming this payload would require to peek into the object to find out its format.

Would it be possible for the JOSE header to be an object in named field? Something like:

```json
{
	"ciphertext": "$response_output",
	"iv": "$initialization_vector",
	"encrypted_key": "$enc_kbs_symkey",
	"jose_params": {
		"alg": "$alg",
		"enc": "$enc"
	}
}
```

Reviewer 3: > I'm not familiar with the JOSE specs. Is it required to be found in this form? As ordering in an array isn't guaranteed, consuming this payload would require to peek into the object to find out its format.
> 
> Would it be possible for the JOSE header to be an object in named field? Something like:
> 
> ```json
> {
> 	"ciphertext": "$response_output",
> 	"iv": "$initialization_vector",
> 	"encrypted_key": "$enc_kbs_symkey",
> 	"jose_params": {
> 		"alg": "$alg",
> 		"enc": "$enc"
> 	}
> }
> ```

AFAIK, the architecture of a JOSE object should look like
```rust
BASE64URL_ENCODE({"alg": "$alg","enc": "$enc"}).
BASE64URL_ENCODE($enc_kbs_symkey).
BASE64URL_ENCODE($initialization_vector).
BASE64URL_ENCODE($response_output).
BASE64URL_ENCODE($authentication_tag)
```

Here `$authentication_tag` is extra result of specific symmetric encryption (s.t. AEAD) besides cipher text. Algorithms like `AES/GCM` will produce such authentication data. And care about each adjacent two base64url-encoded part are connected by a dot `.`

I think the json format shown in the document may be for understanding the fields of the JWE used here. Am I right? @sameo 

Reference to [JOSE Cookbook](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7520#section-5.1.5) and [JWE Spec](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7516#section-2).

Author: Sorry for the delayed answer, post LPC has been busy for me...

@Xynnn007 you're partly right, although what you're describing is the [compact JWE serialization format](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7516#section-7.1).
But I think we want to use the [flattened JWE JSON serialization format](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7516#section-7.2.2). 

With that format, our `Response` JSON-formatted payload would then look like that:

```json
{
    "protected": "$jose_header",
    "encrypted_key": "$encrypted_key",
    "iv": "$iv",
    "ciphertext": "$ciphertext",
    "tag": "$tag"
}
```

Where:

```shell
jose_header = BASE64URL_ENCODE({"alg": "$alg","enc": "$enc"})
encrypted_key = BASE64URL_ENCODE($enc_kbs_symkey)
iv = BASE64URL_ENCODE($initialization_vector)
ciphertext = BASE64URL_ENCODE($response_output)

# tag is optional and depend on the encryption algorithm.
tag = BASE64URL_ENCODE($authentication_tag) 
```

I find it a little convoluted, but this really is what the spec defines. FWIW there are some on going, recent work on a rust crate for JWE and JWK: https://github.com/RustCrypto/JOSE

If we're fine with that definition, I'll update that PR accordingly.

Author: Thanks @slp. I updated the document and the openAPI description as well. I think we *may* be good now :) PTAL.

# KBS attestation Protocol

The Key Broker Service attestation protocol defines communication between a
Key Broker Client (KBC) in a confidential guest and a trusted Key Broker
Service (KBS). The protocol uses the simple, universal, and extensible
"Request-Challenge-Attestation-Response" (RCAR) method to facilitate guest
attestation and secret injection.

# Introduction

The purpose of the attestation between KBS and KBC is to confirm whether **the
platform where the KBC is located is in the expected security state**, i.e. if

> it runs in a real and harmless HW-TEE, and the software stack is measured and

Author: I meant trustworthy. Fixed now, thanks.

verifiable.

> In this document, HW-TEE attestation process is the semantics of the application

Author: Fixed, thanks.

layer, which is defined as a simple, universal and extensible

> "Request-Challenge-Attestation-Response" (RACR) protocol. The temporary

Author: Fixed, thanks.

asymmetric key generated by HW-TEE is used to encrypt the response output
payload, and the standard [HTTP Cookie](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies)
mechanism is used to avoid the performance problems caused by multiple

> attestation: it's fairly typical to request for several resources, and then send
> from the same KBC multiple Requests. Having to do the whole attestation dance

Reviewer 4: This might be slightly clearer?:

```suggestion
attestation: it's fairly typical for the KBC to require several resources, resulting in multiple Requests to the KBS. Having to do the whole attestation dance
```

Author: Fixed, thanks.

would be time consuming and have a latency impact on the guest.

In order to ensure the ease of use and security completeness of KBS, we will use

> [HTTPS](#http-integration) as the default transport protocol to carry the

Reviewer 4: > the default transport protocol

What are the alternatives to the HTTP default? How would they be configured?

Author: There are no alternatives :)

application layer semantics designed in this document. This is because HTTPS
provides KBC with a means to authenticate KBS identity, which effectively avoids
malicious attackers from hijacking KBS address to impersonate KBS and deceive
KBC.
In order to achieve this, the public key of KBS needs to be transmitted to KBC
through an effective way, and the specific way of public key distribution is out
of this document scope.

It should be noted that the confidentiality protection provided by HTTPS alone
is not enough to meet the security requirements of the KBS protocol.
Therefore, as mentioned above, the key generated by HW-TEE needs to be used to
encrypt and protect the confidential data.

> # `RCAR` semantics

Author: Fixed, thanks.

The semantics of attestation defined by KBS is a simple and extensible four-step
model, which uses JSON structure to organize information. As follows:

1. **Request**: The KBC sends the initial `Request` payload to the KBS, in order
   to authenticate itself against the KBS, and eventually request resources.
2. **Challenge**: After receiving the initial `Request` payload, the KBS
   responds with the `Challenge` payload. This is how the KBS sends the
   attestation challenge to the KBC. Together with the attestation challenge,
   the KBS also sends a session identifier to the KBC, as an HTTP Cookie. This
   session identifier can be used to skip steps 2 and 3 after a successful
   attestation.
3. **Attestation**: The KBC replies to the attestation challenge from step 2
   with an attestation evidence, in order to prove that its environment (HW-TEE)
   is safe and reliable. The KBC sends an `Attestation` payload to the KBS, that
   contains the attestation evidence and the HW-TEE generated, ephemeral public
   key.
4. **Response**: Upon succesfull attestation, the KBC can request resources by

>    sending HTTP `GET` requests to resource specific endpoints. The KBS responds

Reviewer 4: Could you change the order of these sentences to make this step clearer? I think it would be clearer to state first that the KBS will return a successful `Response` payload iff the KBC's `Attestation` payload was successfully validated.

Author: I tried to make it clearer now. Let me know if it's not.

   with a `Response` payload that includes the requested resource data. The
   resource data is protected by the ephemeral public key passed via the
   previously sent `Attestation` payload. Within the valid time of the HTTP
   Cookie generated by the KBS during step 2, the KBC can directly
   request resources or services from KBS, without going through steps 2 and 3.

# Payloads

## `Request`

The payload format of the request is as follows:

```json
{
    /* Attestation protocol version number used by KBC */
    "version": "0.1.0",
    /*
     * Type of HW-TEE platforms where KBC is located,
     * e.g. "intel-tdx", "amd-sev-snp", etc.
     */
    "tee": "$tee",
    /* Reserved fields to support some special requests sent by HW-TEE. */
    "extra-params": {}
}
```

> <sub>Note that the `/*...*/` comments are not valid in JSON, and must not be

Reviewer 4: You could use a ["note" as we do in Kata](https://github.com/kata-containers/kata-containers/blob/main/docs/Documentation-Requirements.md#notes) to make this stand out (and avoid the need for embedded HTML tags). Same comment for the other instances in this doc.

Author: Nice, suggestion applied.

used in real message.</sub>

- `version`

The protocol version number supported by KBC. KBS needs to judge whether this
KBC can communicate normally according to this field.

- `tee`

Used to declare the type of HW-TEE platform where KBC is located, the valid
values are `intel-tdx`, `intel-sgx` and `amd-sev-snp`.

- `extra-params`

In the run-time attestation scenario (Intel TDX and SGX, AMD SEV-SNP), the
`extra-params` field is not used, so is set to the empty string. However, for
the attestation of some special HW-TEE platforms, this field may be used to
transfer some specific information. For example, some attestations follow the
Diffie–Hellman key exchange protocol to first build a secure channel and
transfer secret messages (Such as AMD SEV(-ES) pre-attestation).

## `Challenge`

If the KBC does not own any KBS generated HTTP Cookie, or if the Cookie validity

> has expired, the KBC is not allowed to directly request resources. It must go

Reviewer 4: > the KBC is not allowed to directly request resources.

Is this worth clarifying the meaning of "allowed" here? Presumably if the KBC attempts to use an expired cookie, the KBS will return an error?

Author: Yes. Clarified now.

     * It is valid until the next time an attestation is required. Its hash must
     * be included in the HW-TEE evidence and signed by the HW-TEE hardware.
     */
    "tee-pubkey": $pubkey

    /* The attestation evidence. Its format is specified by Attestation-Service. */
    "tee-evidence": {}
}
```
<sub>Note that the `/*...*/` comments are not valid in JSON, and must not be
used in real message.</sub>

The KBS matches the attestation evidence to an attesation challenge with the
HTTP Cookie that the KBC includes in the HTTP requests that contains the
`Attestation` payload.

- `tee-pubkey`

After KBC receives the attestation challenge, an ephemeral asymmetric key pair
is generated in HW-TEE. The private key is stored in HW-TEE. The public key and
its description information are exported and placed in the `tee-pubkey` field
and sent to the KBS together with the attestation evidence. The hash of the
`tee-pubkey` field must be included in the custom field of HW-TEE evidence and
signed by HW-TEE hardware. This public key is valid until the next time the KBC
receives an attestation challenge from the KBS.

> The `tee-pubkey` follows the  [JWK](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `tee-pubkey` follows the  [JSON Web Key (JWK)](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517)
```

Author: Fixed, thanks.

used in real message.</sub>

- `alg`

Algorithm used to encrypt the encryption key at `encrypted_key`.
Since the key is encrypted using the HW-TEE public key, `alg` must be the same
value as describe in the [`Attestation`](#attestation)'s `tee-pubkey` field.

- `enc`

Encryption algorithm used to encrypt the output of the KBS service API.

- `ciphertext`

The output of the KBS service API. It must be encrypted with the KBS-generated
ephemeral key.

- `iv`

The input to a cryptographic primitive being used to provide the initial state.
If the algorithm described by `enc` used does not need it, this field is left
blank.

- `encrypted_key`

The encrypted symmetric key used to encrypt `ciphertext`.
This key is encrypted with the HW-TEE's public key, using the algorithm defined
in `alg`.

## Key Format

### Public Key

The [`Attestation`](#attestation) and the [Token Resource](#token-resource)
`tee-pubkey` field contains a public key from a HW-TEE generated asymmetric
key pair.
This field follow the [JSON Web Key](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517)
format:

``` json
{
    "kty": "$key_type",
    "alg": "$key_algorithm"
    "k": "public_key"
}
```

# HTTP Integration

> KBS uses the HTTP transport protocol to exchange the above described

Reviewer 4: This is rather confusing as the introduction says we use HTTPS (line 27).

Author: Fixed, thanks.

```

## Resource Requests

The [authentication](#authentication) phase is the first step of the overall KBS
protocol, where attesters authenticate themselves against a KBS implementation.
This leads to the second phase, during which authenticated attesters can request
protected resources from the KBS.

The KBS implementation keeps track of attestation results and binds them to a
cookie identifier. During the second phase, the KBS can then decide if a
specific resource could be released to a given attester, by mapping the cookie
identifier the attester includes in its resource request message to its
attestation results.

To request a protected resource from the KBS, the attester sends a `GET` request
to a resource specific endpoint. If the attester is allowed to access the
resource, the KBS will respond to the `GET` request with an HTTP response which
content is set to a [KBS Response](#response) JSON payload:

```
┌──────────┐                                         ┌─────┐
│ Attester │                                         │ KBS │
└───┳──────┘                                         └──┳──┘
    ┃            ┌─────────────────────────┐            ┃

>     ┃────────────│GET /kbs/v0/<resource_id>│───────────▶┃

Reviewer 4: What if `<resource_id>`  is `auth` or `attest`? Could that be confusing to clients or KBS programmers, and hence potentially dangerous from a security pov? I see that this endpoint requires `GET` and those "privileged" commands are using `POST`, but would it be safer if this endpoint was different to the "privileged" one (maybe `/kbs/v0/request/<resource_id>` or siimilar?)

Author: I added a `resources/` prefix. And it can either be `resources/key/keyid` or `resources/token/`

   (`Unauthorized`) status code.
2. The attester is authenticated but requests a resource that it's not allowed
   to receive. The KBS implementation sends an HTTP response with a 403
   (`Forbidden`) status code.
3. The requested resource does not exist. The KBS implementation sends an HTTP
   response with a 404 (`Not Found`) status code.

The KBS protocol currently supports two kinds of resources for an attester to
request: keys and tokens.

### Key Resource

Keys are generic protected resources that an authenticated attester can get by
sending a `GET` HTTP request to the `/kbs/v0/key/<key_id>` endpoint.

The `<key_id>` resource name is defined by the KBS. There must be a different
`<key_id>` name for each generic secret or resource that the KBS intends to
deliver to authenticated attesters.

The decision to reply successfully to an attester resource request for a
specific `<key_id>` belongs to the KBS and its underlying attestation service.
The decision is typically based on both the attestation evidence, results and
provisioned policies for a given attester.

### Token Resource

Authenticated attesters can also request a token from the KBS, from the

> `/kbs/v0/token` endpoint. Attesters can use tokens to request additional

Reviewer 4: Is this accessible via `GET`?

* [KBS attestation Protocol](#kbs-attestation-protocol)
* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Payloads](#payloads)
   * [Request](#request)
   * [Challenge](#challenge)
   * [Attestation](#attestation)
   * [Response](#response)
* [Error information](#error-information)
* [HTTP Integration](#http-integration)
   * [Authentication](#authentication)
   * [Resource Requests](#resource-requests)
      * [Key Resource](#key-resource)
      * [Token Resource](#token-resource)
         * [Token format](#token-format)

# KBS attestation Protocol

The Key Broker Service attestation protocol defines communication between a
Key Broker Client (KBC) in a confidential guest and a trusted Key Broker

> Service  (KBS). The protocol uses the simple, universal, and extensible

Author: Fixed, thanks.

"Request-Challenge-Attestation-Response" (RCAR) method to facilitate guest
attestation and secret injection.

# Introduction

> The purpose of the attestation between KBS and KBC is actually to confirm

Author: Fixed, thanks.

payload, and the standard [HTTP Cookie](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies)
mechanism is used to avoid the performance problems caused by multiple
attestation: it's fairly typical to request for several resources, and then send
from the same KBC multiple Requests. Having to do the whole attestation dance
would be time consuming and have a latency impact on the guest.

In order to ensure the ease of use and security completeness of KBS, we will use
[HTTPS](#http-integration) as the default transport protocol to carry the
application layer semantics designed in this document. This is because HTTPS
provides KBC with a means to authenticate KBS identity, which effectively avoids
malicious attackers from hijacking KBS address to impersonate KBS and deceive
KBC.
In order to achieve this, the public key of KBS needs to be transmitted to KBC
through an effective way, and the specific way of public key distribution is out
of this document scope.
In addition, it should be noted that the confidentiality protection provided by
HTTPS alone is not enough to meet the security requirements of KBS protocol,

> therefore, as mentioned above, the key generated by HW-TEE needs to be used to

Author: Fixed, thanks.

   responds with the `Challenge` payload. This is how the KBS sends the
   attestation challenge to the KBC. Together with the attestation challenge,
   the KBS also sends a session identifier to the KBC, as an HTTP Cookie. This
   session identifier can be used to skip steps 2 and 3 after a successful
   attestation.
3. **Attestation**: The KBC replies to the attestation challenge from step 2
   with an attestation evidence, in order to prove that its environment (HW-TEE)
   is safe and reliable. The KBC sends an `Attestation` payload to the KBS, that
   contains the attestation evidence and the HW-TEE generated, ephemeral public
   key.
4. **Response**: Upon succesfull attestation, the KBC can request resources by
   sending HTTP `GET` requests to resource specific endpoints. The KBS responds
   with a `Response` payload that includes the requested resource data. The
   resource data is protected by the ephemeral public key passed via the
   previously sent `Attestation` payload. Within the valid time of the HTTP
   Cookie generated by the KBS during step 2, the KBC can directly
   request resources or services from KBS, without going through steps 2 and 3.

> 

Author: Fixed, thanks.

# Payloads

## `Request`

The payload format of the request is as follows:

<sub>Note that the `/*...*/` comments are not valid in JSON, and must not be
used in real message.</sub>

```json
{
    "request": {
        /* Attestation protocol version number used by KBC */
        "version": "0.1.0",
        /*
         * Type of HW-TEE platforms where KBC is located,
         * e.g. "tdx", "sev-snp", etc.
         */
        "tee": "",
        /*
         * Reserved fields are used to support some special requests sent by
         * HW-TEE.
         */
        "extra-params": {}
    }
}
```

- `version`

The protocol version number supported by KBC. KBS needs to judge whether this
KBC can communicate normally according to this field.

- `tee`

Used to declare the type of HW-TEE platform where KBC is located, the valid

> values are `tdx`, `sgx` and `sev-snp`.

Author: It's not too late, and your suggestion makes sense. Thanks.

- `extra-params`

In the run-time attestation scenario (TDX, SEV-SNP, SGX), the `extra-params` are

> not used, so it is kept empty. However, for the attestation of some special

Author: Fixed, thanks.

HW-TEE platforms, this field may be used to transfer some specific information,
for example, some attestations depend on Diffie–Hellman to build a secure
channel and transfer secret messages (Such as the SEV(-ES) pre-attestation).

## `Challenge`

If the KBC does not own any KBS generated HTTP Cookie, or if the Cookie validity
has expired, the KBC is not allowed to directly request resources. It must go

> through the attestation process and sends an initial `Request` payload to the

Author: Fixed, thanks.

- `nonce`

The fresh number passed to KBC. KBC needs to place it in the evidence sent to

> the KBS in the next step to prevent replay attacks.

Author: Not to my knowledge, no.

- `extra-params`

The reserved extra parameter field which is used to pass the additional
information provided by the KBS when some specific HW-TEE needs to be attested.

## `Attestation`

After receiving the attestation challenge, the KBC builds an attestation
evidence from the HW-TEE platform and organizes it into the following payload:

```json
{
    "evidence": {
        /*
         * The nonce in the Challenge; its hash needs to be included in HW-TEE
         * evidence and signed by HW-TEE hardware.
         */

>         "nonce": "",

Reviewer 4: Is it worth changing lines like this to something like:

```suggestion
        "nonce": "$nonce",
```

... since currently if you don't read the comments and only look at the JSON, it suggests this field is / should be blank.

Author: Fixed, thanks.

then use HW-TEE's public key to encrypt the random symmetric key.

# Error information

In addition to using the standard HTTPS status code to represent the returned
error type, it is also necessary to provide a detailed description of the
attestation error. We define the error return payload as follows:

```json
{
    "error": {
        "info": ""
    }
}
```

# HTTP Integration

KBS uses the HTTP transport protocol to exchange the above described
attestation messages, as HTTP requests and responses payloads.

The first step in the HTTP-based KBS attestation protocol described here allows
for an attester to authenticate itself against a trusted Key Brokering Service.
The second step is when an attester requests one or more protected resources
from the KBS. The resources are delivered by the KBS back to the attester based
on the HTTP Cookie bound authentication results.

## Authentication

Before being able to request a protected resource (a key, a token, etc), an
attester must authenticate itself against the remote KBS. Only after succesfully
authenticated itself, it can request those resources.

The authentication service is provided by the KBS through two endpoints:

> 1. `/kbs/v0/auth` only accepts `POST` requests which body is a [KBS Request](#request)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. `/kbs/v0/auth` only accepts `POST` requests whose body is a [KBS Request](#request)
```

Author: Fixed, thanks.

   JSON payload. This endpoint is for the attester to initiate the attestation
   protocol and authenticate itself against the KBS. The KBS reply HTTP response
   is composed of:
   a. A `Set-Cookie` header set to `kbs-session-id=<session>`. The KBS tracks
   the attester and its attestation results with that cookie.
   b. An attestation challenge for the attester to take. This is the content of
   the response, set to a [KBS Challenge](#challenge) JSON payload.

> 2. `/kbs/v0/attest` only accepts `POST` requests which body is a [KBS Attestation](#attestation)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. `/kbs/v0/attest` only accepts `POST` requests whose body is a [KBS Attestation](#attestation)
```

Author: Fixed, thanks.

   JSON payload and the header contains a `Cookie` set to the value received in
   step 1.a. This is how the attester replies to attestation challenge received
   in step 1.b. The KBS replies to that request with an empty HTTP response
   (no content), which HTTP status indicates if the attestation was succesful or
   not.

```

> ┌──────────┐                                          ┌─────┐

Reviewer 4: I :heart:  these diagrams! :smile:

Author: https://monodraw.helftone.com/#introduction ;-)

│ Attester │                                          │ KBS │
└────┳─────┘                                          └──┳──┘
     ┃                 ┌─────────────────┐               ┃

>      ┃─────────────────┼POST /kbs/v0/auth┼──────────────▶┃

Reviewer 4: Micro-nit: The horizontal lines with arrow heads don't seem to render as designed as they seem to overflow slightly, making the vertical lines bulge. Maybe you need to insert some sort of unicode "half space" char on the other lines to make them line up?

Author: Fixed it, thanks.

     ┃                 ├─────────────────┤               ┃

>      ┃                 │Header: N/A      │               ┃

Reviewer 4: When you say "n/a" do you mean literally empty, or just nothing of interest to show here?
For example, are `Content-Length` and `Content-Type` required? What about a date? If specified, is that validated (what if the date was the epoch or a value far in the future)?

Author: I mean that the header should not contain any kbs related cookie (as opposed  to the next ones).
I tried to fix it now, let me know if that looks better.

specific resource could be released to a given attester, by mapping the cookie
identifier the attester includes in its resource request message to its
attestation results.

To request a protected resource from the KBS, the attester sends a `GET` request
to a resource specific endpoint. If the attester is allowed to access the
resource, the KBS will respond to the `GET` request with an HTTP response which
content is set to a [KBS Response](#response) JSON payload:

```
┌──────────┐                                         ┌─────┐
│ Attester │                                         │ KBS │
└───┳──────┘                                         └──┳──┘
    ┃            ┌─────────────────────────┐            ┃
    ┃────────────┼GET /kbs/v0/<resource_id>┼───────────▶┃
    ┃      ┌─────┴─────────────────────────┴────┐       ┃
    ┃      │Header: "Cookie kbs-session-id=123" │       ┃
    ┃      │Body: N/A                           │       ┃
    ┃      └────────────────────────────────────┘       ┃
    ┃                    ┌────────┐                     ┃
    ┃◀───────────────────┼Response┼─────────────────────┃
    ┃     ┌──────────────┴────────┴───────────────┐     ┃

>     ┃     │Header: "Set-Cookie kbs-session-id=123"│     ┃

Reviewer 4: How does the KBS expire these session IDs to avoid having to cache them forever (aka a potential slow memory leak)? There doesn't appear to be a final call that the Attester makes. But even if there was that wouldn't be sufficient to deal with a buggy / nefarious attester. I'm assuming some sort of timeout, but where would that need to be specified / documented?

Reviewer 2: I think it's reasonable leaving that up to the implementation and out of the scope of the protocol. Managing the lifetime of the sessions is a extremely common thing in web development and there is plenty of literature about best practices.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we could note explicitly that this is out of scope to avoid any confusion then? I would imagine that a very long expiration time could be problematic from a memory and security standpoint.

from the KBS. The resources are delivered by the KBS back to the attester based
on the HTTP Cookie bound authentication results.

## Authentication

Before being able to request a protected resource (a key, a token, etc), an
attester must authenticate itself against the remote KBS. Only after succesfully
authenticated itself, it can request those resources.

The authentication service is provided by the KBS through two endpoints:

1. `/kbs/v0/auth` only accepts `POST` requests which body is a [KBS Request](#request)
   JSON payload. This endpoint is for the attester to initiate the attestation
   protocol and authenticate itself against the KBS. The KBS reply HTTP response
   is composed of:
   a. A `Set-Cookie` header set to `kbs-session-id=<session>`. The KBS tracks
   the attester and its attestation results with that cookie.
   b. An attestation challenge for the attester to take. This is the content of
   the response, set to a [KBS Challenge](#challenge) JSON payload.
2. `/kbs/v0/attest` only accepts `POST` requests which body is a [KBS Attestation](#attestation)
   JSON payload and the header contains a `Cookie` set to the value received in

>    step 2.a. This is how the attester replies to attestation challenge received

Author: Thanks, fixed.

     ┃      │Header: "Set-Cookie kbs-session-id=123"│    ┃
     ┃      │Body: N/A                              │    ┃
     ┃      └───────────────────────────────────────┘    ┃
     ┃                                                   ┃
     ┃                                                   ┃
     ┃                                                   ┃
     ▽                                                   ▽
               Figure 1: KBS Authentication Phase

```

## Resource Requests

The [authentication](#authentication) phase is the first step of the overall KBS
protocol, where attesters authenticate themselves against a KBS implementation.
This leads to the second phase, during which authenticated attesters can request
protected resources from the KBS.

The KBS implementation keeps track of attestation results and binds them to a
cookie identifier. During the second phase, the KBS can then decide if a
specific resource could be released to a given attester, by mapping the cookie
identifier the attester includes in its resource request message to its
attestation results.

To request a protected resource from the KBS, the attester sends a `GET` request

> to a resource specific endpoint. If the attester is allowed to access the

Author: Yes, I added that section now.
Note that I'm planning to also add an OpenAPI definition to this PR. Stay tuned ;-)

    /* JWT payload custom claim set */

    /*
     * The HW-TEE's public key sent by KBC in the attestation evidence, which is
     * valid within the validity period of the token.
     * It follows the JWK format.
     */
    "tee-pubkey": $pubkey
}.
[Signature]

> ```

Reviewer 2: Ditto.

Reviewer 2: @sameo Just to be sure, the KBS is expected to send the token pre-encrypted, doesn't it? That is, three base64-URL strings (header, payload and signature) separated by dots. Is that right? If so, perhaps the docs should explicitly state that?

Author: That's correct @slp. I expanded the token section quite a bit to describe this. I also updated the openAPI description accordingly. Please have a look.

[Signature]
```

The header part of the token declares the format standard of the token and the
signature algorithm used.

The payload part is divided into official claim set and custom claim set. In the
official claim set, we select three fields, `exp`, `iat`' and `iss`, which
respectively declare the expiration time, issuing time and issuer (KBS URL

> address) of the token. The custom field in the payload contains the HW-TEE's

Reviewer 4: I wonder if a table would make this clearer:

| field | Description | Type | Example |
|-|-|-|-|
| `exp` | Expiration time | seconds and nanoseconds since epoch? | ? |
| `iat` | Issuing time | seconds and nanoseconds since epoch? | ? |
| `iss` | Issuer | KBS URL | ? |

Aside: Are these fields validated? And if so how? I've mentioned this before in various other places, but how are the timestamps validated, for example, to ensure they have not been spoofed? Does the overally system rely on Secure NTP for example?

public key sent by KBC along with the attestation evidence, which is valid

> within the validity period of the token. When KBC uses the token to request

Reviewer 4: What is a "reasonable" or normal validity period?
